### Under Development

# What is Throwback
Throwback is a modern-browser, 2d game rendering engine.  You can use it to render old-school, sprite animated games for web and mobile.

## Throwback (mostly) Does Not Use Canvas
As of May 2013 the `<canvas>` element is *still* a bottleneck for many mobile devices. One of the goals of Throwback is to maintain an exceptional frame-rate with a large number of on-screen sprites on mobile.  As such, Throwback uses absolute-positioned `<div>` elements and CSS3 animations to provide hardware-accelerated rendering.

<small>(Throwback does use canvas elements for some behind-the-scenes work, e.g. building static background images from sprite-sheets)</small>

All of the HTML content is generated by Throwback at runtime; you can worry about your game logic and let Throwback handle all the messy HTML and rendering details.

## The Node Tree
Every Throwback game consists of a `Stage` with one or more user-defined `Scenes`.  A `Scene` can contain one or more `Layers`; `Layers` contain any number of `Entities` (`Animations`, `Sprites`, etc.) or `Groups` thereof.  All of these objects, including the `Stage`, inherit from a base class called `Node`, and are connected in a tree hierarchy:

                               Stage
                                 |
                      +----------+----------+
                      |                     |
                    Scene                 Scene
                      |                     |
      +---------------+------------+        +
      |               |            |        |
    Layer           Layer        Layer    Layer
      |               |                     |
      +         +-----+-----+               +
      |         |            |              |
    Entity    Group        Entity         Group
                |                           |
                +                     +-----+-----+
                |                     |           |
              Entity                Entity      Group
                                                  |
                                            +-----+-----+
                                            |           |
                                          Entity      Entity

<small>The hierarchy of Throwback is inspired by [KineticJS](https://github.com/ericdrowell/KineticJS), an HTML5 Canvas JavaScript library</small>

Every node in this tree can be styled and animated, including the root node `Stage`, and these styles can propagate to child nodes.

Examples to follow once more of Throwback is written.